--- Page 1 ---
DAYANANDA SAGAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
(An Autonomous Institute affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), Belagavi,  
Approved by AICTE and UGC, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ grade & ISO 9001 – 2015 Certified Institution) 
Shavige Malleshwara Hills, Kumaraswamy Layout, Bengaluru-560 111, India 
 
 
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING 
(Accredited by NBA Tier 1: 2025-2028) 
 
Project Phase- I Report on 
[22EC76] 
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized 
Medical IoT Environments 
Submitted in partial fulfillment for the award of the Degree of 
 
Bachelor of Engineering 
in 
Electronics and Communication Engineering 
 
 
 
Submitted by 
 
A B Vishvajeeth 1DS22EC001 
Malcolm Cephas 1DS22EC118 
Shalini Sinha 1DS22EC200 
   
Under the Guidance of 
Dr S Thenmozhi 
Associate Professor 
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering 
DSCE, Bengaluru 
VISVESVARAYA TECHNOLOGICAL 
UNIVERSITYJNANASANGAMA, BELAGAVI-590018, KARNATAKA, 
INDIA 
2025-26 


--- Page 2 ---
DAYANANDA SAGAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
(An Autonomous Institute affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), Belagavi,  
Approved by AICTE and UGC, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ grade & ISO 9001 – 2015 Certified Institution) 
Shavige Malleshwara Hills, Kumaraswamy Layout, Bengaluru-560 111, India 
 
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING 
(Accredited by NBA Tier 1: 2025-2028) 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE 
 
Certified that the project report entitled “Attribute -Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for 
Decentralized Medical IoT Environments” carried out by A B Vishvajeeth bearing a USN: 1DS22EC001  a 
bonafide student of DAYANANDA SAGAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING,  an autonomous institution 
affiliated to VTU, Belagavi  in partial fulfillment for the award of Degree of Bachelor of Electronic and 
Communication Engineering during the year 2025 -2026. It is certified that all corrections/suggestions indicated 
for Internal Assessment have been incorporated in the report depos ited in the departmental library. The Project 
Phase-I report has been approved as it satisfies the academic requirements with respect to the work prescribed for 
the said Degree. 
 
 
Signature of the Guide 
Dr S Thenmozhi 
Associate Professor 
Dept. of ECE, DSCE 
Bengaluru 
      Signature of the HoD 
       Dr. Shobha  K.R 
  Dean IQAC, Prof & Head        
       Dept. of ECE, DSCE, Bengaluru 
                   Signature of the Principal 
                  Dr. B G Prasad 
               Principal 
                DSCE, Bengaluru 
 
                                                
Name of the Examiners 
 
1. ........................................... 
 
2. ........................................... 
   Signature with date 
 
    .......................................... 
 
    .......................................... 


--- Page 3 ---
DAYANANDA SAGAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
(An Autonomous Institute affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), Belagavi,  
Approved by AICTE and UGC, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ grade & ISO 9001 – 2015 Certified Institution) 
Shavige Malleshwara Hills, Kumaraswamy Layout, Bengaluru-560 111, India 
 
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING 
(Accredited by NBA Tier 1: 2025-2028) 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE 
 
Certified that the project report entitled “Attribute -Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for 
Decentralized Medical IoT Environments” carried out by Malcolm Cephas bearing a USN: 1DS22EC118 a 
bonafide student of DAYANANDA SAGAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEER ING, an autonomous institution 
affiliated to VTU, Belagavi  in partial fulfillment for the award of Degree of Bachelor of Electronic and 
Communication Engineering during the year 2025 -2026. It is certified that all corrections/suggestions indicated 
for Internal Assessment have been incorporated in the report deposited in the departmental library. The Project 
Phase-I report has been approved as it satisfies the academic requirements with respect to the work prescribed for 
the said Degree. 
 
 
Signature of the Guide 
Dr S Thenmozhi 
Associate Professor 
Dept. of ECE, DSCE 
Bengaluru 
      Signature of the HoD 
       Dr. Shobha  K.R 
  Dean IQAC, Prof & Head        
       Dept. of ECE, DSCE, Bengaluru 
                   Signature of the Principal 
                  Dr. B G Prasad 
               Principal 
                DSCE, Bengaluru 
 
                                                
Name of the Examiners 
 
1. ........................................... 
 
2. ........................................... 
   Signature with date 
 
    .......................................... 
 
    .......................................... 


--- Page 4 ---
DAYANANDA SAGAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
(An Autonomous Institute affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), Belagavi,  
Approved by AICTE and UGC, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ grade & ISO 9001 – 2015 Certified Institution) 
Shavige Malleshwara Hills, Kumaraswamy Layout, Bengaluru-560 111, India 
 
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING 
(Accredited by NBA Tier 1: 2025-2028) 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE 
 
Certified that the project report entitled “Attribute -Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for 
Decentralized Medical IoT Environments” carried out by Shalini Sinha bearing a USN: 1DS22EC200 a bonafide 
student of DAYANANDA SAGAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, an autonomous institution affiliated to VTU, 
Belagavi in partial fulfillment for the award of Degree of Bachelor of Electronic and Communication Engineering 
during the year 2025 -2026. It is certified that all corrections/suggestions indicated for Inter nal Assessment have 
been incorporated in the report deposited in the departmental library. The Project Phase-I report has been approved 
as it satisfies the academic requirements with respect to the work prescribed for the said Degree. 
 
 
Signature of the Guide 
Dr S Thenmozhi 
Associate Professor 
Dept. of ECE, DSCE 
Bengaluru 
      Signature of the HoD 
       Dr. Shobha  K.R 
  Dean IQAC, Prof & Head        
       Dept. of ECE, DSCE, Bengaluru 
                   Signature of the Principal 
                  Dr. B G Prasad 
               Principal 
                DSCE, Bengaluru 
 
                                                
Name of the Examiners 
 
1. ........................................... 
 
2. ........................................... 
   Signature with date 
 
    .......................................... 
 
    .......................................... 


--- Page 5 ---
DAYANANDA SAGAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
(An Autonomous Institute affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), Belagavi,  
Approved by AICTE and UGC, Accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ grade & ISO 9001 – 2015 Certified Institution) 
Shavige Malleshwara Hills, Kumaraswamy Layout, Bengaluru-560 111, India 
 
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING 
(Accredited by NBA Tier 1: 2025-2028) 
 
 
DECLARATION 
 
 We, A B Vishvajeeth (1DS22EC001), Malcolm Cephas (1DS22EC118),  Shalini Sinha 
(1DS22EC200), respectively, hereby declare that the project work entitled “Attribute -Based 
Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments” has been 
independently done by us under the guidance of Dr S Thenmozhi , Associate Professor, ECE department 
and submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirement for the award of the degree of Bachelor of 
Electronics & Communication Engineering at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, an autonomous 
institution affiliated to VTU, Belagavi during the academic year 2025 -2026 for the VII Semester 
Autonomous Course. 
We, the students of VII Semester Major -project group/ batch no.  D5 do hereby declare that the entire 
major-project phase 1 has been done on our own. We further declare that we have not submitted this 
report either in part or in full to any other university for the award of any degree. 
PLACE: Bangalore 
DATE: 
A B Vishvajeeth 1DS22EC001 
Malcolm Cephas 1DS22EC118 
Shalini Sinha 1DS22EC200 
  
 

--- Page 6 ---
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
The satisfaction and euphoria accompanying the successful completion of any task would be incomplete 
without the mention of people who made it possible under constant guidance and encouragement. We 
sincerely thank the Management of Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, Bengaluru. 
We express our sincere regards and thanks to Dr. B G Prasad , Principal, Dayananda Sagar College of 
Engineering, Bengaluru. His constant encouragement guidance and valuable support have been an 
immense help in realizing this project. 
We express our sincere regards and thanks to Dr. Shobha. K .R, Professor & Head, Department of 
Electronics and Communication Engineering, Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, Bengaluru. Her 
incessant encouragement guidance and valuable technical support have been an immense help in realizing 
this project. Her guidance gave us the environment to enhance our knowledge, and skills and to reach the 
pinnacle with sheer determination, dedication, and hard work. 
We would like to express profound gratitude to our guide Dr. S Thenmozhi, Associate Professor, 
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, 
Bengaluru who has encouraged us throughout the project. Her moral support enabled us to complete the 
work successfully. 
We express our sincere thanks to Project Coordinator Dr. S Thenmozhi, Associate Professor, Dr. 
Manasa R, Assistant Professor of the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering for 
their continues support and guidance. We thank all teaching and non-teaching staff of the Department of 
Electronics and Communication Engineering for their kind and constant support throughout the academic 
journey. 
 
A B Vishvajeeth 1DS22EC001 
Malcolm Cephas 1DS22EC118 
Shalini Sinha 1DS22EC200 
  
 

--- Page 7 ---
           
ABSTRACT 
We present an Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework in this project that is intended 
to be used in Medical IoT (MIoT) scenarios that are decentralized, thus solving the security, compliance, 
and granularity issues related to the ongoing ha ndling of medical data that are very pressing. The 
overriding concern is that the attribute-based authorization should not only be facilitated or imposed but 
also the risks related to key abuse, unauthorized disclosures, and discontinuities arising from me dical 
data that is ever flowing between distributed endpoints should be minimized at the same time. The 
framework is utilizing Ciphertext -Policy Attribute -Based Encryption (CP -ABE) and a hybrid 
blockchain–off-chain architecture where the blockchain part pr ovides immutable auditability and 
authorization of policies via smart contracts, and the off -chain part allows for scalability with regard to 
processing encrypted medical data. Methodologically, the system consists of user -defined structured 
attribute assignment, decentralized user key generation, user attribute-based encryption with user-defined 
access policy embedded in the encryption, verifiable outsourced decryption, and logging that is tamper -
resistant. Assessment shows a reduction in client -side computation, the ciphertext will remain constant 
in size, and confidentiality, integrity, as well as traceability, have been enhanced through the utilization 
of distributed ledger technology. The final result is a secure and flexible access -control scheme that can 
be deployed in various heterogeneous nodes across the medical sector to share information that is 
protected in encrypted form through MIoT devices and clinical systems. Remote diagnostics, 
interoperable sharing of EHRs, and secure data streams generate d by IoMT are some of the potential 
applications. The future direction includes AI support in dynamic access policies, compatibility across 
me 
 
 
Keywords: Ciphertext-Policy Attribute-Based Encryption (CP-ABE), Medical Internet of Things (MIoT), 
Blockchain-Based Access Control, Smart Contracts, Verifiable Outsourced Decryption, Distributed 
Ledger Technology (DLT). 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 8 ---
Table of Contents 
     
LIST OF FIGURES i 
LIST OF TABLES ii 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS iii 
 
CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION 
1.1 Overview 
1.2 Problem Statement 
1.3 Objective 
1.4 Motivation 
1 
CHAPTER 2: LITERATURE SURVEY 3 
CHAPTER 3: PROBLEM ANALYSIS AND DESIGN 
3.1 Analysis 
3.2 Block Diagram 
14 
CHAPTER 4: METHODOLOGY  
4.1 Flow Diagram 
4.2 System Architecture 
4.3 Methodology Steps 
18 
CHAPTER 5: WORK DONE SO FAR 25 
 
REFERENCES 
PLAGIARISM REPORT 
28 
31 
 
 
                                                           
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 9 ---
 
 
LIST OF FIGURES 
 
Fig. No Fig. Caption Page No. 
Fig 3.1 Block Diagram of the Proposed Methodology 17 
Fig 4.1 Flowchart of the Proposed Methodology 18 
Fig 5.1 Plot of ECG graph when tested on ourselves 25 
Fig 5.2 
Health Dashboard Output once forming a local host 
to display the data 27 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 10 ---
 
LIST OF TABLES 
 
Table No. Table Caption Page No. 
Table 2.1 
 
Literature Review on ABE, Blockchain, MioT, and 
Decentralized Storage 3 
Table 4.1 Testing and Evaluation Metrics for each step 
23 
Table 5.1 Initial Test Value from MAX30102 Sensor 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 11 ---
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
Abbreviation Full Form 
AA Attribute Authority 
ABE Attribute-Based Encryption 
AC Access Control / Access Control Server 
AES Advanced Encryption Standard 
AI Artificial Intelligence 
APPI Act on the Protection of Personal Information (Japan) 
AR Augmented Reality 
BPM Beats Per Minute 
BT Blockchain Technology 
CBC Cipher Block Chaining 
CID Content Identifier 
CIANA Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability, Non-Repudiation, Authentication 
CKKS Cheon–Kim–Kim–Song (Homomorphic Encryption Scheme) 
CNN Convolutional Neural Network 
CP-ABE Ciphertext-Policy Attribute-Based Encryption 
CPU Central Processing Unit 
DAG Directed Acyclic Graph 
DHT Digital Humidity and Temperature sensor (DHT22) 
DL Deep Learning 
DLT Distributed Ledger Technology 
ECC Elliptic Curve Cryptography 
ECDH Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman 
ECG Electrocardiogram 
EHR Electronic Health Record 
FHIR Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources 
GDPR General Data Protection Regulation 
GCM Galois/Counter Mode 
HMAC Hash-Based Message Authentication Code 

--- Page 12 ---
Abbreviation Full Form 
HIPAA Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 
HSM Hardware Security Module 
HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol 
IDS/IPS Intrusion Detection System / Intrusion Prevention System 
IoMT Internet of Medical Things 
IoT Internet of Things 
IPFS InterPlanetary File System 
JSON JavaScript Object Notation 
KGC Key Generation Center 
LPWAN Low-Power Wide Area Network 
ML Machine Learning 
MIoT Medical Internet of Things 
MQTT Message Queuing Telemetry Transport 
PBFT Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance 
PHI Personal Health Information 
PII Personally Identifiable Information 
PKI Public Key Infrastructure 
PoW Proof of Work 
PRE Proxy Re-Encryption 
QKD Quantum Key Distribution 
RNN Recurrent Neural Network 
RSA Rivest–Shamir–Adleman 
SHA Secure Hash Algorithm 
TA Trace Authority 
TEEs Trusted Execution Environments 
TPS Transactions Per Second 
WSN Wireless Sensor Network 
WBAN Wireless Body Area Network 
Wi-Fi Wireless Fidelity 
WIoMT Wearable Internet of Medical Things 

--- Page 13 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            1 
 
Chapter-1 
Introduction 
1.1 Overview 
The Medical Internet of Things (MIoT) has become an essential part of modern healthcare, 
allowing for uninterrupted patient monitoring, data collection, and remote doctor evaluation, 
among other things. Such systems are decentralized and, hence, their outp ut consists of 
Personal Health Information (PHI) and Personally Identifiable Information (PII) that are 
extremely sensitive and must be protected against unauthorized access, misuse of keys, and 
privacy violations. The traditional, centralized access -control models have proven to be 
insufficient for MIoT ecosystems because of the complexity of these systems, their limited 
scalability, and the impossibility of executing fine -grained, attribute-based permissions in a 
decentralized network. 
To solve these problems, this project introduces an Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access 
Control Framework that merges Ciphertext-Policy Attribute-Based Encryption (CP-ABE) 
with a mixed blockchain-off-chain architecture. The blockchain offers decentralized trust, 
immutable audit logs, and automatic policy application through smart contracts, while the 
off-chain encrypted storage guarantees scalability and data privacy. This framework not only 
provides fine-grained authorization but also decentralized key management, verifiable 
outsourced decryption, and tamper-proof data traceability—all of which contribute to the 
secure and compliant sharing of medical data between various MIoT devices and healthcare 
institutions. 
1.2 Problem Statement 
Despite the fact that Medical IoT (MIoT) systems provide essential health data in real -time from 
various locations and devices, the current access-control models are still mainly centralized and 
unable to apply fine-grained, cryptographically verifiable authorization in decentralized settings. 
Present CP-ABE techniques cover the area of attribute -based access but still experience certain 
problems. These include the vulnerability to key-abuse, lack of user identification, increase in the 
size of encrypted da ta with the complexity of the policy, and high decryption time that is even 
more than the capability of the restricted IoT nodes. These restrictions indicate a significant 

--- Page 14 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            2 
 
difference between theoretical CP -ABE models and the actual security needs of modern MIoT 
infrastructures. Moreover, the research indicates a lack of integration of decentralized trusted 
mechanisms - e.g. blockchain - with CP-ABE to offer unalterable audit logs, verifiable outsourced 
decryption, and automated policy enforcement. The current frameworks are not able to adapt to 
the upcoming requirements for data governance regarding confidentiality, traceability, regulated 
data deletion, and secure interoperability among healthcare networks from multiple institutions. 
In order to close these gaps, a unified access-control framework that is cryptographically enforced 
and can control the entire process of issuing keys and decryption, with the added benefit of using 
blockchain for securing decentralized verification against tampering needs to be addressed. 
1.3 Objectives 
• Implement a Decentralized, Fine-Grained Access Control Mechanism 
• Ensure Cryptographic Accountability and Prevent Key Abuse 
• Optimize Performance for Resource-Constrained IoMT Devices 
1.4 Motivation 
The swift growth of Medical IoT (MIoT) ecosystems has facilitated the exchange of real-time data 
and the monitoring of health on a continuous basis, but at the same time it has posed challenging 
issues of security, privacy and compliance that are very complicated. The traditional, centralized 
access-control models are not capable of securing the sensitive PHI and PII that are moving across 
various devices with different characteristics, limited resources and different healthcare sectors. 
Such systems create  single points of failure, have a limited capacity for scalability and do not 
provide a strong support for the fine -grained, attribute-based authorization. Moreover, current 
ABE schemes produce large ciphertexts, impose high decryption times and do not off er key 
misuse tracing mechanisms —making them unfit for MIoT. The stringent confidentiality, 
accountability and verifiable data handling requirements set by global regulations such as GDPR 
and HIPAA have created a strong demand for a decentralized, cryptographically robust solution. 
This results in the establishment of an Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework 
that uses CP -ABE, blockchain and off -chain storage to ensure secure, efficient, and compliant 
medical data sharing in decentralized MIoT settings 

--- Page 15 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            3 
 
Chapter-2 
Literature Survey 
The literature review provides an overview of the current state of research regarding secure data 
management in Medical IoT (MIoT) systems and particularly discusses four main areas: attribute-
based encryption, blockchain -enabled access control, lightweigh t cryptography, and 
decentralized storage. The review also pointed out the pros and cons of different frameworks in 
the field, which include but are not limited to key abuse, ciphertext expansion, resource 
constraints, interoperability, and regulatory comp liance. Through the critical analysis of these 
researched works, this part of the thesis not only delineates the major security and performance 
issues that are still present in decentralized healthcare situations but also prompts the 
development of a new a ccess-control framework that will be more efficient, traceable, and 
cryptographically enforced. 
Table 2.1: Literature Review on ABE, Blockchain, MioT, and Decentralized Storage 
Reference 
Number 
Key Points Objectives Technologies 
Used 
Research Gaps 
[1] Through wearable technology, 
smart devices, and cloud -
based data sharing for real -
time monitoring, the Internet 
of Things (IoT) is 
revolutionizing the healthcare 
industry. To guarantee safe 
and dependable IoT use, 
experts call for more robust 
security measures, and the US, 
EU, and WHO create eHealth 
regulations. 
Diagnosing and 
Finding Health 
issues before it 
becomes an issue 
Medicine has been 
reactive all this 
time, try to make it 
proactive Remote 
vital tracking by 
experts (doctors) 
Cloud Computing, 
Grid Computing, 
Big Data, Networks, 
Ambient 
Intelligence, AR, 
Wearables 
 
Standardization and 
Interoperability 
Architectural and 
Platform Issues 
Resource 
Constraints and 
Low-Power 
Protocols Security 
and Data Protection 
Operational, 
Financial, and Safety 
Challenges 
Environmental and 
Health Impacts 
 
[2] Covers advances in wearables, 
sensors, blockchain, edge -AI, 
and cryptography in 
healthcare, stressing 
regulatory compliance, 
patient-centric design, and the 
Predicting and 
Preventing sickness 
before symptoms, 
Making healthcare 
proactive from 
reactive, Easier 
accessibility in 
Network of medical 
devices, AI analysis, 
Decision Making, 
Remote Diagnosis, 
Edge AI, Big Data, 
Blockchain 
Data Security 
Patient Privacy 
System Reliability 

--- Page 16 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            4 
 
role of ML in diagnosis and 
monitoring. 
 
medicine to 
everyone 
 
[3] Highlights need for stronger 
security, protocol 
interoperability, and patient -
centric usability. Reviews 
biosensors, cloud/fog -edge 
computing, and cryptographic 
standards. Barriers include 
regulatory hurdles, 
fragmented standards, and 
lack of user-focused designs. 
Real Time Health 
Diagnosis, Smart 
Hospital Systems, 
Higher Quality of 
Life, Detecting 
Anomalies 
Nano Tech, Pill 
sized sensors, Real 
time Medicine 
,Wearables, 
Lightweight 
Cryptography, 
Decision Making 
 
Hardware Hurdles 
(sensors in the body) 
Privacy concerns 
Different players 
and standardization 
Security Risks 
Communication and 
Networking 
Challenges 
 
[4] Framework integrates 
multiple sensors, cloud 
computation, and ML -based 
analytics for prediction. 
Ensures data security and 
scalability, tested for various 
patient-centric use cases and 
real-time remote access 
Secure and real time 
patient monitoring; 
Accurately track 
people and services; 
Collect, share, 
monitor, store, and 
analyse data 
Wearable Sensors, 
Cloud and Big Data 
Support, Wide Body 
Area Network 
(WBAN), RFID Wi -
Fi, ZigBee, BLE, 
LPWAN 
Security and 
Privacy, Quality of 
Service , 
(Performance, 
Stability, 
Cost),Energy 
Constraints 
,Computational 
Load 
 
[5] Uses AES+RSA (not CP -ABE) 
for faster, less resource-intense 
cryptography; smart contracts 
for patient consent, 
revocation, and emergency 
delegation; and full audit trail 
on a public blockchain for all 
operations, with plans to 
migrate to a consortium chain  
for cost scalability. 
Creating a Health 
Record with the 
following 
properties, 
Confidentiality, 
Access Control, 
Integrity, 
Emergency Access, 
Interoperability, 
Decentralisation 
Blockchain, Inter 
Planetary File 
System, Smart 
Contacts, 
Encryption  
Techniques, RSA, 
AES, SHA 256 
 
Cost Challenge, 
Future Mitigation, 
Improved Security, 
Emergency, 
Accessibility 
[6] Reviews key protocols 
(ZigBee, BLE, LoRa WAN) and 
advocates for CIANA 
(Confidentiality, Integrity, 
Availability, Non-repudiation, 
Authentication) emphasis. 
Calls for lightweight security, 
device-level measures, and 
continuous adaptation of 
review the current 
state of security and 
privacy in IoMT. 
Examine, classify, 
and characterize 
security techniques 
and solutions. 
Review and discuss 
attack use cases, 
Implantable 
Devices, Wearable 
Devices, Ambient 
Devices, Stationary 
Devices, Blockchain 
(MedSBA, BAKMP -
IoMT, Health - 
Chain), SSA, ABE, 
Biometrics, ECC, 
Time Complexity, 
Energy 
Consumption, 
Resource 
Complexity, Need 
for ML approaches, 
Security in Network 
Layer, Anomaly 
Detection, Access 
Control 

--- Page 17 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            5 
 
IDS/IPS for health 
environments 
challenges, and 
future directions. 
Minimal Human 
Intervention 
ECDSA, Deep 
Learning, Hybrid 
PCA-GWO +DNN, 
Deep Belief 
Network 
[7] Permissioned blockchains 
(like Hyperledger) are more 
efficient than Ethereum for 
health data. AI -driven 
methods enhance contract 
security/fraud detection. Key 
challenges are quantum 
security, regulatory 
compliance, interoperability, 
scalability, and energy use. 
Enhanced Data 
Security; Privacy 
Protection; 
Improved 
Interoperability; 
Efficiency and 
Transparency; 
Patient Autonomy 
and Data Control; 
Distributed 
Networks (P2P, 
IPFS), Decentralized 
Blockchain, PoW, 
BFT, RAFT, ABE, 
Cryptography, 
FHIR Chain, 
HIPAA, GDPR, 
FHIR 
Scalability, 
Regulatory 
Compliance, 
Interoperability 
,Transaction Costs, 
Quantum Attacks, 
Need for Quantum 
Resilient 
Architecture 
[8] Most frameworks target 
technological not 
organizational risk. ML and 
blockchain are vital for 
intrusion detection and 
privacy. There is a critical need 
for updated, comprehensive 
risk management databases, 
and none of the reviewed 
frameworks fully integrat e 
security measures. 
Review progress in 
developing IoMT 
risk assessment and 
management 
frameworks Check 
if these frameworks 
focus on 
technological 
security design and 
measures 
Determine whether 
they also assess 
organizational 
security practices. 
Machine Learning, 
Deep Learning, 
Blockchain, Digital 
Twins, IoMT, 
Attacks 
No assessment of 
organizational 
measures, Need for 
comprehensive 
frameworks, Design 
of general risk 
management 
database for IoMT, 
Framework for 
overall IS security 
level 
[9] This paper reviews IoMT 
cybersecurity, noting major 
risks like unpatched systems, 
unencrypted data, and weak 
authentication in devices such 
as pacemakers and infusion 
pumps. It suggests network 
segmentation to limit breaches 
and recommends using AI and 
machine learning for early 
threat detection. 
Address and 
discuss core 
cybersecurity 
problems 
Examine a variety of 
solutions 
Investigate and 
detail specific 
mitigation 
strategies 
Network 
Segmentation, 
HIPAA, 
GDPR, Machine 
Learning, AI, 
IoMT, Blockchain 
No New Solutions. 
Outdated 
Technology. Did 
Not Build Any New 
Tool, Suggested 
Only The Existing 
Ones. HIPPA Law Is 
Too General, Gap In 
Creating Specific 
Standards And 
Regulations. 
Sensitive 
Information. 

--- Page 18 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            6 
 
[10] The framework stores AES -
encrypted medical images in 
IPFS, while the blockchain 
records their hashes and 
access rules through smart 
contracts. Edge nodes perform 
key generation and encryption 
using ECC to reduce delay. 
For secure data exchange 
between hosp itals, keys are 
shared via ECDH. 
Achieving Low 
Latency 
Higher Throughput 
Improved Security 
and Data Integrity 
Reduced Storage 
Costs 
Blockchain, IPFS, 
Edge Computing, 
ECC, AES, RTOS, 
SHA 256, HIPFS 
PID,HID 
Substantial 
Computational 
Requirements. 
Potential Edge Node 
Overload. 
Limited Real -World 
Validation. 
Machine Learning 
Integration. 
[11] The paper outlines a three -
layer WIoMT architecture 
(Perception, Network, 
Application) and identifies 
key risks such as unsecured 
networks, unencrypted data, 
and missing updates. 
Regression analysis showed 
security and privacy as the 
strongest predictor of  WIoMT 
adoption, with users most 
concerned about 
unauthorized data access and 
network insecurity 
Analyse factors 
influencing user 
trust and adoption 
Identify key 
security and privacy 
risks Evaluate the 
predictive impact of 
technical factors 
WIoMT, EHR, RFID, 
Portable Medical 
Apps, Wi -Fi, 
Bluetooth, PKI, 
Qualtrics 
Study limited to 
Australian users. 
Survey model 
explains only 54% 
variance. Self -
reported survey may 
bias results. 
[12] The framework stores 
encrypted IoT data off -chain 
in IPFS, with Hyperledger 
Fabric managing metadata 
and access policies. It applies 
CP-ABE for access control, a 
game-theoretic model for data 
pricing, and CKKS 
homomorphic encryption for 
secure data analysi s. Tests 
achieved 64.5 TPS write and 
515.3 TPS read throughput. 
Adapt "End Edge 
Cloud" 
Collaboration Data 
Confidentiality Fine 
Grained Access 
Control 
Blockchain, IPFS, 
ABE, Homo - 
morphic 
Encryption, KGC, 
CPABE 
Limited Device 
Recourses 
Untrustworthy 
Network 
Environment Highly 
Sensitive User 
Privacy Serious Data 
Silos 
[13] Core systems include WSNs, 
RFID tracking, and IoT -based 
data acquisition. Blockchain 
enhances data integrity and 
privacy via distributed ledgers 
and smart contracts. AI, ML, 
DL, and CNNs enable 
automated diagnosis, while 
5G provides low latency and 
Trace IoT research 
in healthcare since 
its emergence. 
Identify which 
countries or world 
regions contribute 
most to the 
development of IoT 
research in 
healthcare. Identify 
RFID, Actuators, 
Sensors, Mobile 
Phones, OSI model, 
ML, DL, CNN, Big 
Data, Edge 
Computing 
Security and Privacy 
(Critical Issues) 
Trust and 
Acceptance 
Interoperability, 
Scalability, Mobility 
Data Storage, 
Ownership, Control 
Barriers to Wide 
Scale 
Implementation 

--- Page 19 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            7 
 
high reliability for body sensor 
networks and remote surgery. 
the most impactful 
scholars and 
publications in IoT 
research in 
healthcare 
[14] Addresses key security issues 
such as key abuse, privacy, 
and computation limits. The 
framework uses five entities 
for secure data sharing, with 
anonymous IDs for privacy, 
outsourced decryption, and 
fixed-size ciphertext to reduce 
storage. 
To provide key 
abuse prevention 
and traceability. To 
reduce the user's 
computational 
burden. To enhance 
cloud storage 
efficiency 
CP-ABE, IoMT, 
Cloud Computing, 
Cryptography Key 
Exchange, Access 
Structure 
Cloud Storage 
Efficiency.  
Encryption/ 
Decryption 
Efficiency 
[15] Focussing on global privacy 
regulations such as GPDR, 
HIPAA, CCPA, PIPEDA, 
APPI and LGPD. Analysed 
regulatory conflicts with 
blockchain immutability. 
Proposing hybrid structure 
combining hash registries 
with encrypted medical data 
storage. Smart contracts help 
dynamic consent and policy 
compliance. Cryptography 
techniques ensure integrity, 
confidentiality 
analyse and 
compare major 
international 
personal data 
protection and 
healthcare 
regulatory 
guidelines 
GPDR (Europe), 
HIPAA (USA), 
CCPA(USA), 
PIPEDA(Cannada), 
Privacy Act 
1988(Australia), 
APPI(Japan), 
AAMCEP(Japan 
Extend Global 
Understanding. 
Proof of Concept 
Work. 
Validate/Implement 
BT in real scenarios. 
[16] This paper proposes a 
blockchain–IPFS hybrid 
framework to secure PHI and 
PII in smart healthcare 
systems and ensure GDPR 
compliance. It uses blockchain 
for immutability and 
traceability and integrates 
with Hyperledger for 
encryption, record 
management, and  ownership 
verification. 
Propose a GDPR -
Compliant 
Framework. 
Implement Secure 
Off-Chain Storage. 
Enable Secure Data 
Sharing 
Blockchain, IPFS, 
Smart Contacts, 
GDPR 
Integrating Mobile 
API for Patient 
Traceability. 
Including 
Emergency Service 
Scenarios 

--- Page 20 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            8 
 
[17] a comprehensive technical 
survey of the Biomedical IoT 
(Bio-IoT) ecosystem. 
Systematically maps and 
categorizes the constituent 
technologies, including 
biosensors, multi -layer 
communication protocols (like 
BLE, 6LoWPAN, MQTT), and 
key architectural standar ds 
such as FHIR and IEEE 
802.15.6 . 
expand on the 
current protocols 
and architectures of 
medical IoT. Most 
relevant protocols 
and technologies 
specifically for 
medical IoT as well 
as the challenges 
IoT, Healthcare IoT, 
wireless 
communication, 
wearable 
technology, 
Raspberry Pi, 
Arduino WSNs, 5G, 
LTE, ZigBee, 
6LoWPAN , 
IPv6,biosensors, 
transducers 
Slow Adoption Rate 
Regulatory Issues 
High barrier for 
entry 
[18] introduces a new 
cryptographic primitive (OC -
BTCP-ABE) that features 
compulsory black -box 
traceability, making it 
impossible for adversaries to 
distinguish a normal 
ciphertext from a tracing 
ciphertext . 
Proposing a new 
CP-ABE scheme 
that simultaneously 
achieves Black -Box 
Traceability and 
Computational 
Outsourcing 
Capabilities. 
Significantly 
improving the 
tracing efficiency. 
Achieving high 
computational 
efficiency and 
practicality 
Compulsory Black -
Box Traceable CP -
ABE with 
Outsourcing of 
Computation, CP -
ABE, Cryptographic 
Access Control, 
Black-box 
traceability, KeyGen 
algorithm, Elliptic 
curve group 
Inefficient 
Decryption for 
Resource-
Constrained Devices 
Quantum Threats 
Assessment 
[19] identifies the most critical 
security risks in 
healthcare as the lack of device 
visibility and 
the proliferation of 
unpatchable legacy systems . 
Protect patient 
safety and privacy 
Maintaining 
availability of 
patient care services 
Medical Devices, 
Smart beds, Virtual 
care telemetry, 
HVAC systems, 
Legacy 
workstations 
Healthcare being a 
top target for attacks 
Lack of visibility and 
inventory 
capabilities 
[20] provides a  simulation -based 
performance analysis 
comparing various encryption 
techniques for healthcare IoT. 
It models the trade -offs 
between robust algorithms 
(AES, ECC) and lightweight 
ciphers (Speck, PRESENT) , 
and also discusses the role of 
hardware-based security like 
TEEs and HSMs in protecting 
device keys. 
Investigate specific 
security needs and 
risks linked with 
Internet of Things 
(IoT) devices 
Provide a 
comprehensive 
analysis of 
sophisticated 
encryption methods 
AES, ECC, QKD, 
Multi Party 
Computing, HSM, 
Speck and Simon 
Block Cipher 
Lack of 
standardized 
security protocols 
Difficulty in 
ensuring 
interoperability 
necessity for 
continuous research 
and development in 
encryption methods 
and security 
solutions 

--- Page 21 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            9 
 
[21] Provides a simulation -based 
analysis of encryption 
methods for healthcare IoT, 
comparing strong algorithms 
(AES, ECC) with lightweight 
ciphers (Speck, PRESENT) and 
discussing hardware security 
options like TEEs and HSMs 
for key protection. 
Investigate specific 
security needs and 
risks linked with 
Internet of Things 
(IoT) devices 
Provide a 
comprehensive 
analysis of 
sophisticated 
encryption methods 
AES, ECC, QKD, 
Multi Party 
Computing, HSM, 
Speck and Simon 
Block Cipher 
Lack of 
standardized 
security protocols 
Difficulty in 
ensuring 
interoperability 
necessity for 
continuous research 
and development in 
encryption methods 
and security 
solutions 
[22] same as the above. Provides a 
comparative case. study on the 
encryption and performance 
factors. 
Explore lightweight 
encryption methods 
tailored for IoT 
healthcare 
applications and 
evaluate their 
effectiveness. 
Conduct a detailed 
comparison of 
lightweight 
encryption 
methods. Identify 
future research 
directions necessary 
to address emerging 
challenges in IoT 
healthcare systems 
AES-128, 
SIMON/SPECK, 
SKINNY, 
PICCOLO, Crypto 
Core, CLEFIA, RC6, 
KATAN, 
SPONGENT, LED. 
Quantum-Resistant 
Encryption 
Energy Efficiency 
Context-Aware 
Security 
[23] A security architecture 
combining private blockchain, 
Proxy Re -Encryption, and 
ABE, enabling patients to 
delegate data access to doctors 
through proxy -transformed 
ciphertext without exposing 
private keys. 
Propose an 
architecture that 
integrates private 
blockchain and 
Proxy Re -
Encryption . Ensure 
tamper-proof 
record-keeping 
using blockchain 
while enabling fine-
grained access 
control through 
PRE 
Blockchain, Proxy 
Re-Encryption 
(PRE), Smart 
Contracts, IoT 
devices , ABE 
Further 
optimization is 
needed to minimize 
energy consumption 
and computational 
costs for resource -
limited IoT devices 
focus on enhancing 
interoperability with 
other healthcare 
systems 

--- Page 22 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            10 
 
[24] This paper proposes and 
benchmarks a practical 
security framework for IoMT 
systems that integrates AES -
256 for data confidentiality 
and HMAC hashing to ensure 
data integrity and authenticity 
. Its performance analysis on a 
medical dataset confirms the 
framework adds robust 
security with a negligible 
computational overhead, 
demonstrating its real -world 
feasibility. 
Suggest a 
comprehensive 
security framework 
to provide the 
confidentiality, 
integrity, and 
authenticity of data 
transmission 
.Demonstrate the 
implementation 
and feasibility of a 
security model to 
protect the 
multifarious 
healthcare 
architecture 
AES-256 encryption, 
HMAC (Hash-based 
Message 
Authentication 
Code) hashing, 
SHA-256 (HMAC -
SHA256), Diffie -
Hellman key 
exchange method, 
PyCrpytodome 
framework 
Validation and 
Resilience 
continuous need for 
enhancement 
approach to 
minimize latency for 
real-time 
applications 
 
[1] Internet of Things for Health Care: A Comprehensive Survey . Discuss about various  IoT 
healthcare architectures and applications emphasizing challenges like interoperability, energy 
efficiency, and security/privacy.  Highlights the critical need for standardization and robust, 
scalable solutions for safe healthcare IoT deployment. 
[2] A Survey on Transforming Healthcare with IoMT: Reviews IoMT devices/platforms enabling 
continuous and proactive healthcare monitoring and decision -making and i dentifies research 
gaps in interoperability, system security, and validating large-scale real-world implementations. 
[3] Biomedical IoT: Enabling Technologies, Architectural Elements, Challenges covers the topics 
of  Maps biomedical IoT layers, including biosensors and edge-cloud computing, with AI-based 
analytics for personalized medicine  and d iscusses unresolved issues such as data privacy, 
regulatory compliance, and scaling barriers. 
[4] IoT-Based Healthcare-Monitoring System for Quality of Life  surveys wearable and ambient 
sensor systems for vital tracking and health monitoring in chronic and elderly patients.  It also 
emphasizes that user security, privacy, and ease -of-use are paramount for sustained 
improvements in quality of life. 
[5] Med-Block: Secure Health Record System Using Blockchain and IPFS  proposes a blockchain 
and IPFS hybrid for secure, tamper-proof EHR storage with smart contracts managing access and 

--- Page 23 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            11 
 
consent. It also notes scalability and cost challenges, proposing permissioned chains to enhance 
practical deployment. 
[6] Security and Privacy Management in Internet of Medical Things  surveys cyber threats 
targeting IoMT layers and reviews adaptive security solutions tailored to resource -constrained 
devices and urges lightweight, context-aware intrusion detection and access control for medical 
IoT environments. 
[7] Smart Contracts, Blockchain and Health Policies  analyzes blockchain smart contracts 
automating health policy enforcement and patient data control  it also h ighlights challenges in 
scalability, regulatory alignment, and evolving quantum-security threats. 
[8] Internet of Medical Things Security Frameworks  researches most IoMT security models lack 
organizational risk measures, focusing mainly on technical defenses  and r ecommends a 
comprehensive risk management framework integrating organizational, technical, and 
procedural controls. 
[9] Internet of Things (IoT): Cybersecurity Risks in Healthcare  involves the details of  
cybersecurity issues from legacy devices, weak encryption, and unpatched systems in healthcare 
IoT and p roposes network segmentation, stronger authentication, and encryption to mitigate 
prevalent risks. 
[10] Zero-Trust Medical Image Sharing Using Blockchain and IPFS designs a decentralized, zero-
trust medical image sharing framework combining AES encryption, blockchain, and ECC key 
management and demonstrates secure, scalable data sharing with low latency but notes edge 
node computational load concerns. 
[11] Security Risks and User Perception towards Adopting Wearable IoMT  reports that privacy 
and security concerns significantly impact willingness to adopt wearable health devices  and 
highlights the importance of addressing unauthorized access and network security fears among 
users. 
[12] Blockchain-Based Secure Data Transaction and Privacy Scheme  proposes end-edge-cloud 
architecture with Hyperledger and IPFS using CP -ABE and homomorphic encryption for data 

--- Page 24 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            12 
 
privacy and a chieves fine -grained access control and high throughput but acknowledges IoT 
device constraints. 
[13] IoT in Healthcare: Taking Stock and Moving Forward  reviews healthcare IoT technologies 
and applications, underlining barriers including security, privacy, trust, and interoperability and 
advises for addressing technological and social challenges to enable broad adoption. 
[14] CP-ABE-Based Medical Data Sharing proposes ciphertext-policy attribute-based encryption 
for secure medical data sharing with key abuse prevention  and i ncorporates outsourcing of 
decryption to reduce patient device load while maintaining strong security. 
[15] Reflections about Blockchain in Health Data Sharing examines conflicts between health data 
privacy laws and blockchain immutability and suggests hybrid approaches where encrypted data 
are off-chain and blockchains store hashes and consent records. 
[16] GDPR Compliant Data Storage and Sharing in Smart Healthcare  presents blockchain and 
IPFS-based framework for GDPR -compliant health data storage and dynamic consent 
management and n otes ongoing challenges such as mobile integration and emergency access 
scenarios. 
[17] Biomedical IoT: Enabling Technologies and Architectural Elements classifies key biomedical 
IoT protocols and standards and identifies adoption slowdowns due to regulation and costs and 
emphasizes layered architectures from sensing to application. 
[18] Compulsory Black -Box Traceable CP -ABE with Outsourcing  introduces a CP -ABE with 
black-box traceability and outsourced decryption to prevent key misuse and reduce device load  
and researches for an approach promising yet resource-heavy for very constrained IoT devices. 
[19] ARMIS Report on Medical and IoT Device Security  highlights lack of asset visibility and 
legacy unpatchable systems as chief risks for healthcare cybersecurity  and r ecommends 
continuous monitoring, agentless device discovery, and network segmentation to enhance 
protection. 
[20] Advanced Encryption Techniques in Healthcare IoT simulates trade-offs between strong and 
lightweight ciphers, emphasizing energy, latency, and security balance and calls for standardized 
encryption profiles adapted to diverse healthcare IoT constraints. 

--- Page 25 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            13 
 
[21]Encryption Analysis for Healthcare IoT  compares encryption algorithms and hardware 
protections, reaffirming the need to match algorithms to device context and threat level. 
[22]Lightweight Encryption Methods for IoT -Based Healthcare reviews a suite of lightweight 
block ciphers suitable for constrained medical devices and discusses future quantum -resilient 
needs. 
[23] Blockchain and Proxy Re -Encryption for Medical IoT Records  proposes private blockchain 
integrated with proxy re -encryption to allow patient -controlled access delegation without key 
exposure and n otes the need for further optimization to reduce energy and computation 
overhead. 
[24] AES-256 Encryption and HMAC Hashing in IoT Smart Healthcare demonstrates an AES-256 
and HMAC -SHA256 framework for IoMT data confidentiality and integrity with minimal 
performance impact and recommends further validation in real-time and large-scale scenarios to 
bolster resilience. 
The project proposed is aim s at eliminating critical security and performance issues in the 
protection of medical data, by bringing mechanisms that ensure accountability, efficiency, and 
adherence to regulations. It stops the most important misuse from happening through identity 
embedding that can be traced, thus dealing with the  accountability in the traditional ABE 
schemes. The whole setup allows fo r decryption which is a significant support to resource -
strapped IoMT devices, resulting in a local computational load reduction without exposing secret 
keys. Trust is further fortified amongst the healthcare networks since blockchain smart contracts 
enforce policies that are unalterable and create audit logs that are impervious to tampering. These 
innovations are in direct response to the issues of GDPR/HIPAA compliance, the need for data 
to be traceable, and the high computational cost associated with the use of existing cryptographic 
methods. Thus, the solution would be a lot more applicable in the case of the  real-world 
deployments of IoMT. 
 
 
 

--- Page 26 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            14 
 
Chapter-3 
Problem Analysis and Design 
3.1 Analysis 
This section identifies the functional needs, performance expectations, hardware/software 
requirements, and operational constraints associated with designing a decentralized 
cryptographic access-control framework for Medical IoT (MIoT) environments. 
Requirement Analysis 
A. Functional Requirements: 
a. Attribute-Based Access Control: 
i. Implement CP-ABE for detailed and policy-controlled access based on 
encryption of the data that has been encrypted according to the specified 
attributes. 
ii. Facilitate the activities of user attribute assignment, key generation, and 
policy embedding. 
b. Decentralized Trust Management: 
i. Make use of blockchain technology for enforcement of policies that 
cannot be altered, execution of smart contracts, and auditing of access 
logs. 
ii. Facilitate the verification of access events in a decentralized manner. 
c. Encrypted Medical Data Handling: 
i. Obtain encrypted PHI/PII and IoMT data using symmetric encryption 
prior to off-chain storage. 
ii. IPFS will be the storage place for encrypted payloads and on-chain will 
be registered the content hashes. 
d. Key Abuse Prevention & Traceability: 
i. Ensure that interested users employ internal operations under secret 
situations to refrain from overwriting actual events. 
e. Verifiable Outsourced Decryption: 
i. Transfer substantially taxing cryptographic tasks to an Access Control 
(AC) server. 
ii. In the case of computations done by third parties, offer proof of their 
accuracy that is verifiable. 
f. Secure Data Sharing Across Entities: 
i. Allow patients, doctors, and healthcare institutions to share encrypted 
data using re-encryption or policy-based access. 
g. Device-to-Cloud Secure Communication 

--- Page 27 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            15 
 
i. Support secure data upload from IoMT devices to IPFS via the 
user/gateway. 
ii. Ensure end-to-end encryption. 
 
B. Non-Functional Requirements 
a. Security & Privacy 
i. Confidentiality: Data encryption while not in use and during the 
transmission. 
ii. Integrity: Verification based on hashing and non-repudiation of the 
blockchain. 
iii. Accountability: Key misuse detection with complete traceability. 
b. Performance & Efficiency 
i. Constant size of ciphertext no matter how complex the access policy is. 
ii. Decryption overhead is decreased for IoMT devices with limited 
processing power. 
iii. Outsourced decryption is verifiable and requires little time for producing 
proofs. 
c. Reliability & Availability 
i. Decentralized storage and blockchain consensus eliminate a single point 
of failure. 
ii. Powerful functioning even when there are delays in the network or 
failures of nodes. 
d. Scalability 
i. Play the support role in ensuring expanding user controls as well as 
individual rights compliance. 
ii. On behalf of the medical networks, ETRIPS would help to disenfranchise 
the control of this medical documentation. 
e. Compliance Requirements 
i. Must accommodate GDPR doctrines such as “Privacy by Design” and 
“Right to Erasure.” 
ii. Compatibility with HIPAA, CCPA, and other international health care 
regulations. 
f. Usability 
i. Seamless user interaction for doctors, patients, and administrators. 
ii. Automated consent and authorization via smart contracts. 
C. Hardware Requirements: 
a. IoMT Devices / Sensors 
i. Heart rate sensor (MAX30102) 
ii. ECG module (AD8232) 
iii. Temperature/Humidity sensor (DHT22) 
b. Microcontroller Platform 

--- Page 28 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            16 
 
i. Arduino Uno R4 WiFi (for data collection & transmission) 
c. Networking Hardware 
i. Wi-Fi router or hotspot for data transfer to backend 
d. Storage Node 
i. IPFS local node or cloud-hosted IPFS gateway 
e. Computer / Server Hardware 
i. System running Hyperledger Fabric blockchain network 
ii. AC server for outsourced decryption 
iii. TA and AA servers for key issuance and traceability 
D. Software Requirements: 
a. Programming Languages 
i. Python / Go (Smart contracts & backend development) 
ii. JavaScript / Node.js (IPFS and REST API integration) 
iii. C/C++ (Microcontroller-side programming) 
b. Platforms & Frameworks 
i. Hyperledger Fabric (permissioned blockchain) 
ii. IPFS (distributed storage) 
iii. OpenSSL / Crypto libraries (ABE, ECC, SHA-256) 
iv. CP-ABE library (Waters, Bethencourt, or custom implementation) 
c. Microcontroller Tools 
i. Arduino IDE 
d. Testing & Evaluation Tools 
i. Hyperledger Caliper (benchmarking) 
ii. Postman / MQTT interface (device-to-server testing) 
E. Constraints 
a. Device Constraints 
i. Low processing power & memory of IoMT nodes. 
ii. Limited battery capacity for wearable/portable sensors. 
b. Network Constraints 
i. Variable latency in decentralized blockchain networks. 
ii. Bandwidth limitations for real-time medical data. 
c. Storage Constraints 
i. On-chain storage must remain minimal—only hashes & metadata. 
ii. IPFS node availability affects data retrievability. 
d. Security Constraints 
i. Must protect against collusion attacks, insider threats, and key misuse. 
ii. Smart contract vulnerabilities must be minimized. 
e. Regulatory Constraints 
i. Data deletion requirements under GDPR (Right to be Forgotten). 
ii. Compliance with healthcare regulations (HIPAA, CCPA, APPI, etc.). 
 

--- Page 29 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            17 
 
f. Cost & Infrastructure Constraints 
i. Running multiple blockchain nodes increases operational cost. 
ii. IPFS and blockchain hosting require stable server resources. 
3.2 Block Diagram 
 
Fig.3.1 Block Diagram of the Proposed Methodology 
• Data Collection: Various Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) devices, like wearables and 
sensors, constantly gather sensitive physiological data, producing raw Protected Health 
Information (PHI) and Personally Identifiable Information (PII).  
Encryption: The collected data undergoes encryption right at the device, using a hybrid 
approach: Symmetric key encryption ensures the payload remains confidential and 
efficient. Ciphertext-Policy Attribute -Based Encryption (CP -ABE) embeds fine -grained 
attribute-based access control into the ciphertext, enforcing flexible, policy -driven data 
access. No unencrypted health data ever leaves the edge device, greatly improving 
privacy. 
• Storage: The encrypted data is stored on off -chain distributed storage (e.g., IPFS nodes).  
Content identifiers (hashes), access policies, and transaction logs are immutably recorded 
on a permissioned blockchain for integrity, auditability, and traceability.  This system 
ensures even if off-chain data is compromised, all references and access remain secure and 
tamper-proof. 
• Regulatory, security controls: The use of blockchain and distributed storage ensures 
compliance with standards such as HIPAA/GDPR and enables robust auditing, tamper -
proof data retention, and proof of origin. 
• Access by authorized users:  Only healthcare professionals with the right attribute 
credentials (e.g., clearance, specialization) can decrypt and access patient records, as 
enforced by the CP-ABE policy. Optional outsourced decryption reduces computation on 
local devices and supports efficient access. 
• End-to-End Secure Data Lifecycle:  The full data pipeline emphasizes decentralized 
control, cryptographically enforced privacy, tamper -resistance, and tightly regulated 
access from initial sensing to final data consumption. 
 
 
 


--- Page 30 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            18 
 
Chapter-4 
Methodology  
 
The entire methodological framework is shown in this chapter, which was used for the design, 
implementation, and validation of the proposed Attribute -Based Cryptographic Access Control 
Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT (MIoT) Environments. The methodology elaborates on 
the system architecture, operational workflow, cryptographic processes, and evaluation strategy 
that are going to be carried out in Phase II. The aim is to outline the procedure for the 
establishment of each subsystem and their combinat ion into a working end -to-end security 
solution in detail. 
4.1 Flow diagram 
 
Fig.4.1 Flow diagram of the Proposed Methodology 
 
 
 


--- Page 31 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            19 
 
Figure 4.1 illustrates the complete secure data-handling workflow of the proposed MIoT access-
control system. The whole process begins with the capture of raw data by a medical IoT device 
from a patient, followed by immediate one -time AES session key encry ption at the edge 
generated by the medical device or a nearby gateway. The patient or an authorized controller 
then specifies the access policy through an app once the data has been made secure. Using ABE, 
a more powerful device, such as a smartphone or edge node, subsequently encrypts the AES key 
based on the access policy, permitting only those with the right attributes to decrypt it. The AES-
encrypted data is dispatched to the IPFS network, which assigns a CID that permanently links to 
the stored file as its reference. Next, a lightweight blockchain transaction containing only the CID, 
the ABE-encrypted AES key, and other crucial metadata such as patient ID and timestamp is 
produced. After being verified by the blockchain network, this becomes part of an immutable 
audit trail. In summary, Fig. 4.1 elaborates on the ways in which AES encryption, ABE, IPFS, and 
blockchain technology collaborate to offer a secure, transparent, and decentralized medical data 
management solution in MIoT environments. 
4.2 System Architecture 
The framework of the system includes these components: 
• IoMT Device Layer: Gathers the primary physiological data through sensors. 
• Gateway/Edge Layer: Encrypts the data via AES and executes ABE key wrapping. 
• Attribute Authority (AA): Provides the secret keys based on the attributes. 
• Trace Authority (TA): Inserts concealed identity markers for the detection of key abuse. 
• Access Control (AC) Server: Conducts decryption of ABE on the outsourced data and 
issues the proofs of verifiability. 
• Blockchain Network: Holds the metadata (CID, encrypted keys, timestamps). 
• IPFS Storage: Keeps the medical data encrypted and off-chain. 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 32 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            20 
 
4.3 Methodology Steps 
Step 1: IoMT Data Collection Module 
The initial step in acquiring data is to connect the MAX30102, AD8232, and DHT22 sensors to the 
Arduino Uno R4 WiFi, which facilitates non -stop monitoring of patient vitals in real -time. The 
microcontroller, through its digitizing and processing functions, draws the output of the sensor, 
whether analog or digital, and turns him/her into structured physiological values. Then,. These 
readings are sent through a wire together in one common format, that is a JSON packet, for 
uniform processing downstream. After  formatting, the data is securely sent to the gateway or 
mobile device through the use of light protocols like MQTT or HTTP, thus assuring efficient and 
reliable delivery into the larger MIoT security pipeline. 
 
Step 2: Symmetric Encryption (AES Module) 
The structured sensor data is sent to the gateway where it is immediately subjected to the 
symmetric encryption process ensuring confidentiality before the data actually leaves the device. 
A one-time AES-256 session key is created with a cryptographically secure random generator, 
and the raw PHI/PII is encrypted with either CBC or GCM mode depending on the requirement 
for integrity. This process turns the plaintext readings into irreversible ciphertext which cannot 
be deciphered without the corresponding ke y. Encryption latency and CPU load in the process 
are also measured to confirm that the method is suitable for low-power IoMT environments. The 
execution of AES at the edge guarantees that the framework provides a protection for sensitive 
medical data even in untrusted networks or storage nodes. 
 
Step 3: Attribute-Based Encryption (CP-ABE Module) 
Currently, the technology is employing Ciphertext-Policy Attribute-Based Encryption (CP-ABE) 
in a way that the AES session key is encrypted under a highly detailed access policy which 
specifies who is entitled to decrypt the medical data. A trustworthy gateway or edge node makes 
a Boolean policy (e.g., Doctor AND Cardiology OR EmergencyStaff) and incorporates it straight 

--- Page 33 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            21 
 
into the CP-ABE encryption workflow. Secret keys are provided by the Attribute Authority (AA), 
whereas the Trace Authority (TA) includes non -extractable identity markers during key 
generation that facilitate forensic tracing of leaked keys. The CP-ABE module, depending on the 
choice of a Python library or a Waters/Bethencourt -based scheme, is utilizing bilinear pairings 
on the elliptic curves to impose policy-driven decryption. Only the individuals whose attributes 
fulfill the policy can obtain the AES key,  and the embedded trace markers offer a robust 
cryptographic accountability against key misuse. 
 
Step 4: Off-Chain Storage (IPFS Integration) 
The medical data that has been encrypted is afterwards uploaded to the IPFS off -chain storage 
layer, which is a distributed, content-addressable system that does not depend on central servers. 
A local or cloud node of IPFS is set up to be part of the peer -to-peer network, which guarantees 
redundancy and fault -tolerant availability. Once the file encrypted with AES is uploaded, the 
IPFS automatically divides it into chunks, applies Merkle -DAG hashing, and creates a unique 
Content Identifier (CID) which is ba sed only on the ciphertext hash. Any change in the data 
results in a different CID thus providing verification of integrity. This CID is stored for future 
access and serves as a permanent link to the encrypted file. Performance tests evaluate upload 
and re trieval latency, as well as CID matching. By this means, the IPFS provides large -scale, 
tamper-proof storage while at the same time ensuring that no sensitive medical data is ever 
directly placed on the blockchain. 
 
Step 5: Blockchain Layer (Metadata Recording + Smart Contracts) 
The blockchain layer operates on a private Hyperledger Fabric network with a separate channel 
specifically for medical data, thus providing limited and secure access for healthcare stakeholders 
only with required permissions. In the process of putting the AES-encrypted data on IPFS, the 
gateway makes a blockchain transaction that involves nothing but metadata: CID, the CP -ABE–
encrypted AES key, a pseudonymized patient ID, and a secure timestamp. A Fabric smart 
contract takes care of this metadata by applyin g schema validation, performing authorization 

--- Page 34 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            22 
 
checks, and making a tamper -proof record before a ledger entry is committed. Transaction is 
uniformly replicated across peers using consensus protocols like Raft or PBFT. The storage of 
only hashes instead of medical data guarantees the system's privacy an d at the same time it has 
an immutable audit trail for forensic analysis. The conducting of controlled tests confirms the 
correct handling of metadata, enforcement of policies, and integrity of the ledger. Therefore, the 
blockchain layer provides non-repudiation, verifiable provenance, and traceability aligned with 
regulation without scalability issues associated with full on-chain storage. 
 
Step 6: Access Control Server (Outsourced Decryption) 
The AC server, during the outsourced decryption phase, performs the heavy pairing and 
exponentiation operations necessary for CP-ABE, thereby lessening the computational burden on 
the resource-limited IoMT devices. Upon a user's access request, the AC serv er gets the ABE -
encrypted AES key from the blockchain metadata, carries out the heavy decryption steps, and 
produces a cryptographic correctness proof to authenticate the computation. It subsequently 
sends to the user both the partially decrypted key and the proof, who then only needs to conduct 
a lightweight final step to get the AES key. This method dramatically enhances the performance 
while simultaneously providing strong security guarantees.. 
Step 7: User Application for Data Access 
During the last step, the authorized healthcare user gets the protected medical record back by 
first downloading the encrypted data from IPFS using its CID and then getting the blockchain 
metadata—such as the ABE-encrypted AES key and the timestamp. The user device receives the 
partial decryption output and correctness proof from the AC server and then verifies the proof to 
make sure the outsourced CP -ABE computation was performed accurately. The user then uses 
their CP-ABE secret key to carry out the final lightweight step of recovering the AES session key. 
The application then uses this key to decrypt the medical data and reconstruct the sensor readings 
for secure display. This process guarantees that only correctly authorized users can access 
sensitive health information, thus confidentiality and integrity are kept throughout the MIoT data 
flow. 

--- Page 35 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            23 
 
Step 8: System Testing and Evaluation 
Table 4.1 Testing and Evaluation Metrics for each step 
Test Category Metrics 
AES Module Latency, throughput 
CP-ABE 
Keygen time, encryption time, decryption 
time 
Outsourced Decryption Reduction in client workload 
IPFS Upload and retrieval time, CID consistency 
Blockchain 
Transaction latency, throughput, block 
creation time 
Access Control Policy enforcement accuracy 
Security Tests 
Unauthorized access attempts, key leak 
simulation 
 
Table 4.1 provides a concise overview of the main testing categories and metrics that were utilized 
to assess the performance, security, and correctness of the suggested MIoT access -control 
framework. The AES module is evaluated with respect to latency and throughput, where the best 
performance is characterized by less than 5 ms for encryption latency and very high throughput, 
which is good for real-time medical data streams. The CP-ABE component is tested through the 
measurement of key-generation, encryption, and decryption times, targeting less than 50 ms for 
key generation, less than 40 ms for encryption, and less than 80 ms for decryption. This ensures 
that the attribute-based policies do not add considerable overhead. The outsourced decryption 
part of the system measures the workload reduction for the client, which is ideally achieved by 
60–80% lower computation duration than local CP -ABE decryption, thus, it becomes a viable 
solution for low-power IoMT devices. 

--- Page 36 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            24 
 
The performance of IPFS is measured by upload and retrieval times, where the ideal values are 
below 200 ms and CID consistency has to be 100% reproducible, which assures trustworthy off -
chain storage. The blockchain layer is subjected to testing for transa ction latency (less than 1 
second), throughput (more than 100 transactions per second), and block creation time (less than 
2 seconds), thus, confirming the logging of metadata in real -time. Access control precision is 
determined by checking whether only the users with the attributes satisfying the policy are able 
to decrypt the data, with the expected precision of 100%. Moreover, security tests consist of 
unauthorized access attempts and simulated key-leak situations, where ideal results indicate no 
successful decryptions of unauthorized parties and successful detection of leaked keys using the 
traceability approach. The system's efficiency, robustness, and adherence to secure MIoT data -
flow requirements are all validated by these metrics combined. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 37 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            25 
 
Chapter-5 
Work Done so Far 
 
From our initial testing and prototyping we were able to get the following results 
Sensor Quality checks: 
In order to guarantee the reliability of the physiological data that were collected, the three 
modules MAX30102, AD8232, and DHT22 underwent a number of quality checks for their 
outputs done by sensors. Such checks examine the stability of the signals, the levels of noise, the 
consistency of the sampling, and the accuracy of the response when the sensor is in normal 
operation. It is necessary to evaluate the performance of the sensors before the readings are 
integrated into the MIoT security pipeline since poor-quality signals can affect not only medical 
interpretation but also cryptographic processing. 
 
Fig 5.1: Plot of ECG graph when tested on ourselves 
Fig 5.1 shows the ECG graph that was plotted on the serial monitor of Arduino IDE when the 
ECG electrodes were hooked up to our body, the ideal value ranging around 50 to 75 and the 
spiking values appearing when we frantically waved our hands around 
 


--- Page 38 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            26 
 
 
Table 5.1: Initial Test Value from MAX30102 Sensor 
IR=501          Avg BPM=74.66 
IR=496           Avg BPM=74.66 
IR=497           Avg BPM=74.66 
IR=505           Avg BPM=74.66 
IR=1482         Avg BPM=74.66 
IR=92020       Avg BPM=76.48 
IR=93772       Avg BPM=76.48 
IR=93736       Avg BPM=76.81 
IR=92389       Avg BPM=76.81 
IR=87012       Avg BPM=76.81 
 
Table 5.1 shows the infrared (IR) intensity values taken from the MAX30102 sensor and also the 
average heart rate (BPM) calculated. The weakest IR readings (approximately 496 to 505) stand 
for the normal signal reflections which are usually seen when the f inger is placed firmly on the 
sensor resulting in an average BPM of 74.66 which denotes heart activity at the baseline level very 
well. As the IR values get higher (like mid-range 1482 and even higher magnitudes 92,000–93,000) 
the sensor perceives the sign al reflections as stronger ones which might be due to better finger 
contact, motion artifacts, or variations of perfusion. This has been the case with the IR intensities 
being a little up to the BPM value of 76.48 –76.81. The BPM values are, however, still stable and 
nature-like, hence, it can be said that the heart -rate algorithm has been stable even amidst the 
changing light absorption levels. The very fact that the MAX30102 is able to provide accurate 
pulse detection at various strengths of contact and signal intensities is confirmed. 
 

--- Page 39 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            27 
 
 
Fig 5.2: Health Dashboard Output once forming a local host to display the data 
The system's real -time health monitoring dashboard is presented in Figure 5.2, which shows 
uninterrupted physiological data streamed from IoMT sensors. The upper left section depicts the 
temperature trend (°C), where step -wise alterations are reflective of  gradual changes in the 
environment or the body surface that are being monitored by the DHT22 sensor. The upper right 
part shows the humidity (%) trend, which has been verified by room moisture conditions, 
indicating a smooth ramp-up. Heart rate (BPM) from the MAX30102 sensor is represented in the 
lower left section, where stable readings with negligible physiological changes are observed. The 
ECG waveform of the AD8232 module is shown in the lower right, the periodic R -peaks and 
normal cardiac electrical activity are easily visible. A "Latest 10 Readings" table below the charts 
provides synchronized timestamps and sensor values for quick reference. This figure is a 
testament to the system that it has been able to acquire, process, and display the real -time 
physiological signals loud and clear enough to continuously monitor health. 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 40 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            28 
 
References 
1. S. M. R. Islam, D. Kwak, M. H. Kabir, M. Hossain, and K.-S. Kwak, “The Internet of Things 
for Health Care: A Comprehensive Survey,” IEEE Access, vol. 3, pp. 678–708, 2015 
2. D. A. A. Raj, K. V. Rukmani, S. Subiksha, P. Vimal, and K. Deepak, “A Survey on 
Transforming Healthcare with IoMT : The Power of Connected Medical Devices,” 
International Journal of Scientific Research in Computer Science, Engineering and 
Information Technology, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 267–277, 2024 
3. M. Aledhari, R. Razzak, B. Qolomany, A. Al -Fuqaha, and F. Saeed, “Biomedical IoT: 
Enabling Technologies, Architectural Elements, Challenges, and Future Directions,” IEEE 
Access, vol. 10, pp. 31306–31339, 2022 
4. Abdulmalek, S.; Nasir, A.; Jabbar, W.A.; Almuhaya, M.A.M.; Bairagi, A.K.; Khan, M.A. -
M.; Kee, S. -H. IoT-Based Healthcare- Monitoring System towards Improving Quality of 
Life: A Review. Healthcare 2022, 10, 1993. 
5. D. Mohanapriya, S. Suresh Kumar, P. J. Vivin Shanker, M. Mukesh, and M. Sathish, “Med-
Block: Secure Health Record Management System Using Blockchain with IPFS,” Dept. of 
Computer Science and Engineering, Nandha College of Technology, Erode, Tamil Nadu, 
India. 
6. R. Haque, H. Muhammad, and A. -S. K. Pathan, “Security and Privacy Management in 
Internet of Medical,” J. Cybersecur. Priv., vol. 2, 2022 
7. K. K. Kakumani, M. Tasnim, S. Parida, F. Omura, and S. Thapa, “Smart Contracts, 
Blockchain and Health Policies Past, Present and Future [v1],” Preprints.org, 2025 
8. S. Svandova and Z. Smutny, “Internet of Medical Things Security Frameworks,” Journal 
of Multidisciplinary Healthcare, vol. 17, pp. 2281–2301, 2024 
9. R. Patel, “Internet of Things (IoT): Cybersecurity Risks in Healthcare,” Undergraduate 
Research Project, Old Dominion University, 2020 

--- Page 41 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            29 
 
10. A. Shahzad, W. Chen, Y. Zhang, and R. Kumar, “Zero -Trust Medical Image Sharing: A 
Secure and Decentralized Approach Using Blockchain and the IPFS,” Symmetry, vol. 17, 
no. 4, p. 551, 2025 
11. S. Thapa, A. Bello, A. Maurushat, and F. Farid, “Security Risks and User Perception 
towards Adopting Wearable Internet of Medical Things,” Int. J. Environ. Res. Public 
Health, vol. 20, no. 8, p. 5519, 2023 
12. J. Wu, Z. Bian, H. Gao, and Y. Wang, “A Blockchain -Based Secure Data Transaction and 
Privacy Preservation Scheme in IoT System,” Sensors, vol. 25, no. 15, p. 4854, 2025 
13. A. Rejeb, K. Rejeb, H. Treiblmaier, A. Appolloni, S. Alghamdi, Y. Alhasawi, and M. 
Iranmanesh, “The Internet of Things (IoT) in healthcare: Taking stock and moving 
forward,” Internet of Things, vol. 22, p. 100721, 2023 
14. Y.-W. Hwang and I.-Y. Lee, “A Study on CP-ABE-Based Medical Data Sharing,” Sensors, 
vol. 20, no. 17, p. 4934, 2020. 
15. A. Corte-Real, T. Nunes, and P. R. da Cunha, “Reflections about Blockchain in Health Data 
Sharing: Navigating a Disruptive Technology,” Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health, vol. 21, 
p. 230, 2024 
16. P. Bai, S. Kumar, K. Kumar, O. Kaiwartya, M. Mahmud, and J. Lloret, “GDPR Compliant 
Data Storage and Sharing in Smart Healthcare System: A Blockchain -Based Solution,” 
Electronics, vol. 11, no. 20, p. 3311, 2022 
17. M. Aledhari, R. Razzak, B. Qolomany, A. Al -Fuqaha, and F. Saeed, “Biomedical IoT: 
Enabling Technologies, Architectural Elements, Challenges, and Future Directions,” IEEE 
Access, vol. 10, pp. 31306–31339, 2022 
18. Y. Hu, H. Qiao, J. Ren, Z. Wang, J. Li, and P. Han, “Compulsory Black-Box Traceable CP-
ABE with Outsourcing of Computation,” Symmetry, vol. 17, no. 9, p. 1539, 2025 
19. ARMIS - Medical and IoT Device Security for Healthcare 

--- Page 42 ---
Attribute-Based Cryptographic Access Control Framework for Decentralized Medical IoT Environments  
 
          Dept. of ECE, DSCE                                                     AY 2025-26                                                                                            30 
 
20. O. Simonoski and D. C. Bogatinoska , “BLOCK MEDCARE: Advancing healthcare 
through blockchain integration,” International Journal on Cybernetics & Informatics 
(IJCI), vol. 13, no. 5, pp. 63–84, 2024 
21. V. Salunkhe, C. Mokkapati, and A. Aggarwal, “Advanced Encryption Techniques in 
Healthcare IoT: Securing Patient Data in Connected Medical Devices,” Modern Dynamics: 
Mathematical Progressions, vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 224-246, 2024 
22. O. Sabri, B. Al-Shargabi, A. AbuArqoub, and T. Al -Hakami, “A Lightweight Encryption 
Method for IoT-Based Healthcare Applications A Review and Future Prospects,” IoT, vol. 
6, p. 23, 2025 
23. A.-E. Jabri, C. Drocourt, M. Azizi, and G. Utard, “Leveraging Blockchain and Proxy Re -
Encryption to Secure Medical IoT Records,”International Journal on Cybernetics & 
Informatics (IJCI), vol. 13, no. 4 pp, 2021. 
24. E. O. Okpu and O. E. Taylor, “Analysing the Integration of AES -256 Encryption and 
HMAC Hashing in IoT Smart Healthcare Systems,” Ci -STEM Journal of Digital 
Technologies and Expert Systems, vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 18–24, 2025 

